docs/reference/analysis/tokenizers.asciidoc, before:

[[analysis-tokenizers]]
== Tokenizer reference

A _tokenizer_ receives a stream of characters, breaks it up into individual
_tokens_ (usually individual words), and outputs a stream of _tokens_. For
instance, a <<analysis-whitespace-tokenizer,`whitespace`>> tokenizer breaks
text into tokens whenever it sees any whitespace. It would convert the text
`"Quick brown fox!"` into the terms `[Quick, brown, fox!]`.

The tokenizer is also responsible for recording the following:

* Order or _position_ of each term (used for phrase and word proximity queries)
* Start and end _character offsets_ of the original word which the term
represents (used for highlighting search snippets).
* _Token type_, a classification of each term produced, such as `<ALPHANUM>`,
`<HANGUL>`, or `<NUM>`. Simpler analyzers only produce the `word` token type.

Elasticsearch has a number of built in tokenizers which can be used to build
<<analysis-custom-analyzer,custom analyzers>>.

[discrete]
=== Word Oriented Tokenizers

The following tokenizers are usually used for tokenizing full text into
individual words:

<<analysis-standard-tokenizer,Standard Tokenizer>>::

The `standard` tokenizer divides text into terms on word boundaries, as
defined by the Unicode Text Segmentation algorithm. It removes most
punctuation symbols. It is the best choice for most languages.

<<analysis-letter-tokenizer,Letter Tokenizer>>::

The `letter` tokenizer divides text into terms whenever it encounters a
character which is not a letter.

<<analysis-lowercase-tokenizer,Lowercase Tokenizer>>::

The `lowercase` tokenizer, like the `letter` tokenizer,  divides text into
terms whenever it encounters a character which is not a letter, but it also
lowercases all terms.

<<analysis-whitespace-tokenizer,Whitespace Tokenizer>>::

The `whitespace` tokenizer divides text into terms whenever it encounters any
whitespace character.

<<analysis-uaxurlemail-tokenizer,UAX URL Email Tokenizer>>::

The `uax_url_email` tokenizer is like the `standard` tokenizer except that it
recognises URLs and email addresses as single tokens.

<<analysis-classic-tokenizer,Classic Tokenizer>>::

The `classic` tokenizer is a grammar based tokenizer for the English Language.

<<analysis-thai-tokenizer,Thai Tokenizer>>::

The `thai` tokenizer segments Thai text into words.

[discrete]
=== Partial Word Tokenizers

These tokenizers break up text or words into small fragments, for partial word
matching:

<<analysis-ngram-tokenizer,N-Gram Tokenizer>>::

The `ngram` tokenizer can break up text into words when it encounters any of
a list of specified characters (e.g. whitespace or punctuation), then it returns
n-grams of each word: a sliding window of continuous letters, e.g. `quick` ->
`[qu, ui, ic, ck]`.

<<analysis-edgengram-tokenizer,Edge N-Gram Tokenizer>>::

The `edge_ngram` tokenizer can break up text into words when it encounters any of
a list of specified characters (e.g. whitespace or punctuation), then it returns
n-grams of each word which are anchored to the start of the word, e.g. `quick` ->
`[q, qu, qui, quic, quick]`.


[discrete]
=== Structured Text Tokenizers

The following tokenizers are usually used with structured text like
identifiers, email addresses, zip codes, and paths, rather than with full
text:

<<analysis-keyword-tokenizer,Keyword Tokenizer>>::

The `keyword` tokenizer is a ``noop'' tokenizer that accepts whatever text it
is given and outputs the exact same text as a single term. It can be combined
with token filters like <<analysis-lowercase-tokenfilter,`lowercase`>> to
normalise the analysed terms.

<<analysis-pattern-tokenizer,Pattern Tokenizer>>::

The `pattern` tokenizer uses a regular expression to either split text into
terms whenever it matches a word separator, or to capture matching text as
terms.

<<analysis-simplepattern-tokenizer,Simple Pattern Tokenizer>>::

The `simple_pattern` tokenizer uses a regular expression to capture matching
text as terms. It uses a restricted subset of regular expression features
and is generally faster than the `pattern` tokenizer.

<<analysis-chargroup-tokenizer,Char Group Tokenizer>>::

The `char_group` tokenizer is configurable through sets of characters to split
on, which is usually less expensive than running regular expressions.

<<analysis-simplepatternsplit-tokenizer,Simple Pattern Split Tokenizer>>::

The `simple_pattern_split` tokenizer uses the same restricted regular expression
subset as the `simple_pattern` tokenizer, but splits the input at matches rather
than returning the matches as terms.

<<analysis-pathhierarchy-tokenizer,Path Tokenizer>>::

The `path_hierarchy` tokenizer takes a hierarchical value like a filesystem
path, splits on the path separator, and emits a term for each component in the
tree, e.g. `/foo/bar/baz` -> `[/foo, /foo/bar, /foo/bar/baz ]`.


include::tokenizers/chargroup-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/classic-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/edgengram-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/keyword-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/letter-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/lowercase-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/ngram-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/pathhierarchy-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/pattern-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/simplepattern-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/simplepatternsplit-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/standard-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/thai-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/uaxurlemail-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/whitespace-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

[DOCS] Add full-text search overview (#119462) (#119606)

docs/reference/analysis/tokenizers.asciidoc, after:

[[analysis-tokenizers]]
== Tokenizer reference

.Difference between {es} tokenization and neural tokenization
[NOTE]
====
{es}'s tokenization process produces linguistic tokens, optimized for search and retrieval.
This differs from neural tokenization in the context of machine learning and natural language processing. Neural tokenizers translate strings into smaller, subword tokens, which are encoded into vectors for consumptions by neural networks.
{es} does not have built-in neural tokenizers.
====

A _tokenizer_ receives a stream of characters, breaks it up into individual
_tokens_ (usually individual words), and outputs a stream of _tokens_. For
instance, a <<analysis-whitespace-tokenizer,`whitespace`>> tokenizer breaks
text into tokens whenever it sees any whitespace. It would convert the text
`"Quick brown fox!"` into the terms `[Quick, brown, fox!]`.

The tokenizer is also responsible for recording the following:

* Order or _position_ of each term (used for phrase and word proximity queries)
* Start and end _character offsets_ of the original word which the term
represents (used for highlighting search snippets).
* _Token type_, a classification of each term produced, such as `<ALPHANUM>`,
`<HANGUL>`, or `<NUM>`. Simpler analyzers only produce the `word` token type.

Elasticsearch has a number of built in tokenizers which can be used to build
<<analysis-custom-analyzer,custom analyzers>>.

[discrete]
=== Word Oriented Tokenizers

The following tokenizers are usually used for tokenizing full text into
individual words:

<<analysis-standard-tokenizer,Standard Tokenizer>>::

The `standard` tokenizer divides text into terms on word boundaries, as
defined by the Unicode Text Segmentation algorithm. It removes most
punctuation symbols. It is the best choice for most languages.

<<analysis-letter-tokenizer,Letter Tokenizer>>::

The `letter` tokenizer divides text into terms whenever it encounters a
character which is not a letter.

<<analysis-lowercase-tokenizer,Lowercase Tokenizer>>::

The `lowercase` tokenizer, like the `letter` tokenizer,  divides text into
terms whenever it encounters a character which is not a letter, but it also
lowercases all terms.

<<analysis-whitespace-tokenizer,Whitespace Tokenizer>>::

The `whitespace` tokenizer divides text into terms whenever it encounters any
whitespace character.

<<analysis-uaxurlemail-tokenizer,UAX URL Email Tokenizer>>::

The `uax_url_email` tokenizer is like the `standard` tokenizer except that it
recognises URLs and email addresses as single tokens.

<<analysis-classic-tokenizer,Classic Tokenizer>>::

The `classic` tokenizer is a grammar based tokenizer for the English Language.

<<analysis-thai-tokenizer,Thai Tokenizer>>::

The `thai` tokenizer segments Thai text into words.

[discrete]
=== Partial Word Tokenizers

These tokenizers break up text or words into small fragments, for partial word
matching:

<<analysis-ngram-tokenizer,N-Gram Tokenizer>>::

The `ngram` tokenizer can break up text into words when it encounters any of
a list of specified characters (e.g. whitespace or punctuation), then it returns
n-grams of each word: a sliding window of continuous letters, e.g. `quick` ->
`[qu, ui, ic, ck]`.

<<analysis-edgengram-tokenizer,Edge N-Gram Tokenizer>>::

The `edge_ngram` tokenizer can break up text into words when it encounters any of
a list of specified characters (e.g. whitespace or punctuation), then it returns
n-grams of each word which are anchored to the start of the word, e.g. `quick` ->
`[q, qu, qui, quic, quick]`.


[discrete]
=== Structured Text Tokenizers

The following tokenizers are usually used with structured text like
identifiers, email addresses, zip codes, and paths, rather than with full
text:

<<analysis-keyword-tokenizer,Keyword Tokenizer>>::

The `keyword` tokenizer is a ``noop'' tokenizer that accepts whatever text it
is given and outputs the exact same text as a single term. It can be combined
with token filters like <<analysis-lowercase-tokenfilter,`lowercase`>> to
normalise the analysed terms.

<<analysis-pattern-tokenizer,Pattern Tokenizer>>::

The `pattern` tokenizer uses a regular expression to either split text into
terms whenever it matches a word separator, or to capture matching text as
terms.

<<analysis-simplepattern-tokenizer,Simple Pattern Tokenizer>>::

The `simple_pattern` tokenizer uses a regular expression to capture matching
text as terms. It uses a restricted subset of regular expression features
and is generally faster than the `pattern` tokenizer.

<<analysis-chargroup-tokenizer,Char Group Tokenizer>>::

The `char_group` tokenizer is configurable through sets of characters to split
on, which is usually less expensive than running regular expressions.

<<analysis-simplepatternsplit-tokenizer,Simple Pattern Split Tokenizer>>::

The `simple_pattern_split` tokenizer uses the same restricted regular expression
subset as the `simple_pattern` tokenizer, but splits the input at matches rather
than returning the matches as terms.

<<analysis-pathhierarchy-tokenizer,Path Tokenizer>>::

The `path_hierarchy` tokenizer takes a hierarchical value like a filesystem
path, splits on the path separator, and emits a term for each component in the
tree, e.g. `/foo/bar/baz` -> `[/foo, /foo/bar, /foo/bar/baz ]`.


include::tokenizers/chargroup-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/classic-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/edgengram-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/keyword-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/letter-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/lowercase-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/ngram-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/pathhierarchy-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/pattern-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/simplepattern-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/simplepatternsplit-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/standard-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/thai-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/uaxurlemail-tokenizer.asciidoc[]

include::tokenizers/whitespace-tokenizer.asciidoc[]
